now officials in Cyprus say a ship
loaded with humanitarian aid for Gaza
has been given clearance to set sail the
Open Arms relief vessel is expected to
leave the port of lanica any time now to
use a new Maritime Corridor to deliver
the supplies to Gaza a temporary dock
will be set up to receive the aid as
well as a distribution Network now the
US has separately sent a ship to build a
larger Pier for a wider relief
effort DW correspondent Rosie Berard at
lanica Port in Cyprus joins us now Rosie
you just attended a briefing with uh
Superior officials what have you been
hearing we're at a special operations
Hub in the city of larica where cypriate
officials are able to track and look at
this new maritime Corridor which is now
really starting from here in the city of
larica so that Aid boats can reach Gaza
safely and that much needed Maiden void
we understand should be setting off very
soon so in this room around me you'll
see there are cameras where officials
can monitor what's happening at the Port
we also see for example lots of maps
that shows the area where cypriate
officials could deploy for example
search and rescue vessels if this ship
were to get into distress now I've been
speaking with C officials I've got the
very latest from them take listen to
what they had to
say we have uh finished the inspection
and loading of the vessel of the Open
Arms vessel uh and the platform they are
using so uh the most important part is
that everything is uh ready uh
permissions have been granted and now
it's uh a scheduling um issue for uh the
NGO that uh is handling this
issue Rosie um just talking about the
schling issue there do we have an idea
of the exact time uh when this is uh
going to get the all
clear in the coming hours what I
understand is that the NGO which is
preparing to receive this Aid on the
gazen side is still busy building its
temporary peer in order to actually
receive this now this is a first of its
kind delivery it's a delivery of tons
hundreds of tons I've been told of
things like flour of rice of protein
like canned tuna and of course we know
that is much needed in Gaza where there
really is a humanitarian disaster and
officials here are hoping they can ramp
up this Corridor over the next few weeks
to see to this Voyage really seen as a
test for trying to get this done the
idea is that cypriate officials check
the goods here in Cyprus o overseen by
Israeli officials before it depart so
that they can go directly to Gaza now we
are however hearing from United Nations
officials saying this Maritime Corridor
while it's welcome news is no
replacement for land access and so those
calls to increase access into Gaza via
traditional land Crossings are still
mounting particularly from the United
Nations and Rosie we're just uh looking
there um earlier as you were speaking to
live looking at live images of the
vessel there we have the images of the
vessel um how long is it likely to take
to get to its destination and deliver
what uh these desperately needed
Aid so Cypress is the point in the
European Union which is the closest to
Gaza but it's still some 400 km so make
no mistake this is not an easy journey
and generally this should take about 15
hours so at least a full day of sailing
but given the fact that this boat is
tugging a a heavy cargo it could be that
that takes much longer certainly into a
couple of days so this is is no mean
feet and certainly something as you can
see the eyes of cypriate officials
bearing down on this to try and make
sure this works because of course as we
know really lives are at stake here the
United Nations has been warning of
famine in Gaza I should say that Israel
says it facilitates the access of Aid
Israel has welcomed this initiative
although Israel has also faced criticism
particularly for ngos for what they say
really is that lack of humanitarian
access and how difficult it has been to
get life-saving Aid into the besiege
territory okay we have to leave it there
Rosie DW correspondent Rosie Bard thank
you for bringing us up to
speed